In the last lecture, we added child routing, let's now improve this app a little bit more. In our servers
component,
we have our links loading to individual servers,
so the single server component, this component here with this allowEdit query parameter. So now in the
server component, we should add some button where we say edit server because right now, we get no way
of reaching the edit-server.component
besides manually typing this route here, this path here into our URL.
So let's add a button to the server component,
I'll add some CSS classes to make this look nice and of course, I'll add a click listener where
I say onEdit. Now again, this is on a single server component.
So here I'll add the onEdit method
and in here, I now want to navigate to the edit-server.component.
We learned how to do this, we need to get access to the router so that we are able to call the navigate
method,
so let's inject it,
make sure to also add the import from @angular/router
and with that injected in onEdit, we can navigate. You learned how to do this, so maybe a time to pause
the video and try it on your own.
This is how I would do it,
I would call my router,
then of course we have the navigate method and here we need to pass an array and we simply want to append
edit to the end of the currently loaded route.
So you could of course also use /servers, the relative path, then use the ID of the currently
loaded server again, server ID and then append edit
but since we already are on this path, why not just use a relative route and just use edit?
Now you learned if you want to use a relative path here, when using the navigate method,
you need to set up the relativeTo property here on the second argument, on this object you can pass
to navigate and reference the currently loaded route, so that the @angular/router knows to which route
you want to navigate relatively.
So with this, we should load the /edit route, we should append it to the end of our currently loaded
route,
let's see if this works. If we go to servers, click on a server and I click on edit,
we load the edit server page
and now here, we want to control on where the user is allowed to update, to edit the server or not.
The issue is, you see we theoretically have our query params here, allowEdit always set to one in
this case but we lose this information as soon as we click edit server,
so that is something we need to fix before we can use the information there.
We will fix that in the next lecture, before doing so let's implement the rest of the logic though. Let's
say here on the server component where we set the allowEdit query parameter, we don't always want
to set this to 1, to true
therefore, we want to decide on whether we want to allow the editing depending on the server ID let's
say.
So only if the server ID equals three let's say, only in this case we want to allow edit, so we want to set
it to 1, otherwise we will set it to zero.
So that's just a ternary expression,
checking the server ID and if it's not equal to 3, we will set it to zero,
so we will set the allowEdit parameter to zero.
That's the first step.
Now in edit server of course, we want to be able to retrieve our query params.
So here, we already get the subscribe method on the query params,
now here I want to determine on whether we are allowed to edit or not.
So I will add a new allowEdit property here and set it to false initially but whenever this
changes here in the query parameters, I want to get my query params which are also of type params to
be imported from @angular/router
and then here in the method body, I will set this allowEdit equal to my query params here equal
to the allowEdit ID or property we set there
and now this either is one, string of one, of course you could also pass true as a string here, in which
case I want to set allowEdit to true. If it is not one, I will set it to false though
and in the template of this component, we could simply add a heading let's say where we say you're not
allowed to edit if and we can use ngIf for this, if allowEdit is false, so if not allowEdit and we
wrap all the rest in a new div,
so all this part here only if it is true.
And now all of a sudden, we would control this
but again the issue is if you click on edit server, our query params disappear,
so it is always in the you're not allowed to edit mode.
Let's fix it in the next lecture,
let's see how we can actually preserve our query params once we navigate again.